one Pablo Escobar welcome to to
Scandinavia thank you very much it's a
pleasure to be your your name your name
these days is Sebastian Moroccan is that
because the Escobar name is too much to
carry it is because the airlines didn't
wanted to sell any plane tickets to
travel and to get away from violence you
know we we stayed in Colombia for a year
waiting for somebody to help us after
your father died after my father's dead
and we asked the Vatican the United
Nations and nobody wanted to help us so
it was our last option if we wanted to
stay alive so that was when you could
leave the country with your mother and
your family
the next day we change our names we
could fly with without any problems we
saw some pictures of your father and if
you were to estimate how many murders is
he directly or indirectly responsible
for well there is not an official record
of that but I believe that it is almost
about 3,000 people um and yet to you he
is a very different person he's your
father and you knew him as a very
different person well the murderer I
know both I know both because I he was
my father but also he was a bandit and
when I was seven years old he told me
look I am a bandit that's what I do for
living before this before you really
knew who what kind of father was he well
he was as far back as I can remember
well I remember him giving me a lot of
love being at home with me and my family
he was a very good man with me I receive
a lot of love from him that's what I
remember
I also remember
and we went to see the poor villages in
Colombia and to help them and that's the
father that I knew at the beginning but
of course he's now more remember thanks
to his violence not for his good
behavior at the beginning you describing
also as a vain person well yes he really
took care of his own hair and he stayed
in front of the mirror for too many
hours just to watch his teeth so he took
like two hours for him and check to get
ready in the morning anyway yeah and I
asked him what what we take you so long
and he told me oh you can go to the
dentist I I can't you call him a bad
loser too
well he didn't want to lose he was
always cheating even to me or to my mom
to everybody he didn't want to lose at
all but he played soccer the game only
end when he was winning and that's it
and what if you play the board game or
you had some wouldn't believe we yes we
used to play Monopoly and yes he hide
all the money and everything and even if
he lose a lot
he was always winning and I didn't know
why but she was making a lot of he was
cheating a lot growing up as as as you
did as the son of one of the world's
richest men according to the Forbes list
at least well nobody I didn't saw
anybody from Forbes in our family
looking into our wallets it's the it's a
way to sell a lot of magazines but still
yes a very rich man he was a very rich
man and I asked him how money how much
money do you have and and he he told me
I don't know I really don't want to
count that how could you how could you
notice that he was rich I mean what you
will never love
or were you a spoiled spoiled child
or did he well sure of course I receive
a lot of presents from him I have more
than 30 motorcycles and we have our own
sooo private Zoo you have how many
motorcycles more than 30 more than 30
motorcycle yeah yeah that's a spoiled
child if I have yeah but he gave me a
lot of love and education and he always
was very near me at the time when you
had this you had this famous mansion
called hacienda nápoles yes and this was
really a big estate a big property yeah
we have our own Airport and also uh more
than ten houses more than 100 vehicles
for us and for the guests and if you
didn't find anything inside the agenda
you just could ask the chopper to go and
buy that so and you had a zoo as well
yes ooh and a lot of thing more than one
hand more than 1,000 animals from all
over the world we have hippos riders
zebras live elephants
yes so how did he get them how I mean
this is well he just send a lot of
people around the world to buy them and
and I also went with him to some suits
inside the United States to buy some
other animals he paid two million
dollars for the elephants you were I
mean you were also the son of a
politician not only a drug dealer but a
politician as well I mean Pablo Escobar
was an ambitious politician well yes and
and he he got far but at some point it
was like the the political establishment
in Colombia realized who he was what he
did and rejected him well my father fell
did he respond well my father felt he
humiliated and
the first answer was he resigned
publicly and after that he ordered the
killing of the Minister of Justice and
that was in the year 1984 exactly and
after that the older word began from the
drug trafficking business against
Colombia as a country as their
government the authorities everything
was scarce so from from that day on we
became really changed
yeah it really changed Colombia's life
our family's life everybody and you were
you were mostly on the run since then
from like everybody yes like I felt like
I was abandoned because everybody was
chasing also me I saw the reward signs
asking for me what why did they chase
you well at the time the police in
Colombia didn't recognize us as
individuals they thought we were the
same they went after his family as well
after everybody yeah how did you I mean
how did you react to this did you did
you talk to your father about this did
you try to change him of course I did
that a lot of times when yes mostly when
I was 11 years old in 1988 there was a
car bomb exploded in magazine January 13
against our home it was thanks to the
Cali cartel that bomb
700 kilos of dynamite who is much older
all the glasses around one kilometer
around the city everything was there I
remember the newspaper they call that
Medellin woke up us by route but how did
you survive that if it was meant to it
is a miracle I have the pictures and I
don't know I can understand how what
what happened did you wake up and or I
mean well what's the last part you see
when you're going to sleep the ceiling
no when when when I get up I saw the sky
there was nothing left but we were there
do you remember the conversations you
had with your father where you tried to
reach him to change
of course well when I saw the the bombs
in the news I told him look what's going
on
you don't you don't have to do this you
should not do this a lot of innocent
people is dying and he told me he
answered me look I didn't invent this
they used this against my family my
beloved ones and I asked I answered to
him if anybody puts me a bomb that
doesn't allow me to put bombs to
everybody I don't believe in violence
and that's maybe that's why he
approached the government and try to you
know when he surrendered to the
Cathedral prison it was a way of showing
the family a little bit of respect so he
wanted to make peace he when he went to
end violence in Colombia and he
surrendered and my mother was doing the
same thing was just challenging him and
asked him him why didn't he stop
violence did how did he react when you
challenged him well he was very
respectful I may say but so he didn't
aggressive or yeah he was open to the
conversation but he wasn't willing to
change anything you know the CIA was
after him the FBI everybody was after
him and nobody could stop him
needed why as a 14 year old kid he
volunteered for prison as you mentioned
yeah a prison that he got to build
himself well is the first bandit in
human history that really and actually
built his own prison yeah and he changed
quite comfortable as well very
comfortable and then he ran away again
yeah when the government ordered the two
translated him to another place and they
he get out of the prison he was the
owner of the prison he was the the
greatest producer of narcotics in the
world at some point well he's accused of
being the owner of the
percent of the market in the eighties
okay yeah okay do you have any memories
of the drugs in your family did anyone
in your family use drugs as you remember
well I have an uncle who died because of
drug abuse we are very aware of that and
when I was eight years old my father
talked to me about drugs he put all the
drugs in front of me and he teach me how
to recognize every one of them he told
me what happened if I have used every
kind of them and he told me if you ever
want to try you come and we will try it
together after that I felt that there
was a legalization for me so I didn't
felt curious and I never tried see you
never tried no until I was 28 years old
I tried marijuana and that's it did he
try himself who do you think he used
yeah he told me that he try all of them
and but not heroin and he told me that
he always liked marijuana but nothing
more he talked he teach me that cocaine
II was a poison to sell and not to take
when you were 16
your father died yes and you you were
the last person to talk to him he called
you up why do you think he called you
because he wanted to be found he was a
way of committing suicide because my
father you know the fact the family you
were in hide know you were in yeah in
hiding in an apartment right well we try
to get out of the country we flew to
Germany and the authorities there they
make us against our will they make us
return to Colombia and after that my
father understood that there was will be
never any safe place for his family and
he understood that either we are going
to
pierre is that or he had to choose that
that's why he start calling he has his
bodyguard near to him he always teach me
not to use the telephone because he was
death as his own words don't use
telephone because his death that's why
he started calling more than seven times
and i'm star protecting him i just hang
up the phone because I knew it was
tapped I of course and we are we were
forced to check-in into the hotel who
was owned by the Colombian Army forces
so it was very clear that everything was
tapped that we have microphones all over
the place and he was the most wanted man
in the world
and he really knew how to get out of the
authorities very easily and that's why
it was so hard for me to know know him
that he was calling just to be traced
and to be killed so what was this last
conversation about well we were talking
about an interview from a very
well-known magazine in Colombia he
wanted to give me the answers and I was
explaining to him I know all the answers
we spoke a lot you don't have to stay in
the phone because you know what's going
to happen and I hang up but he was kid
calling and calling a Colleen and that's
why I understood that he was willing to
get killed you as you know the official
version of what happened is that Pablo
Escobar was shot by the police while
trying to escape well we have more than
one official version if you ask the
North Americans they will tell you we
were the ones who killed Pablo Escobar
and if you had the Colombian police they
will tell you we were the ones and you
have our own opinion about this I don't
have a pinion I have probes I have
evidence is different from opinions how
come because I have the the recordings
of my father he never talked too much in
the telephone so
the first proof he had taught you how to
commit suicide yes because we didn't
wanted to be tortured by the police why
you think that he committed suicide
himself and here he taught me because he
told me not to fire in his mouth or any
other part just in the right ear and it
was the same place where the bullet
appeared what what have you learned
yourself well I've learned so much about
violence that I became a man of peace
you know because I don't believe in
violence I know how it can you know
disappear country a whole country can
change culture you can change people and
money doesn't buy you happiness or
freedom even worst my father's money
at the end he was for the financing his
own death you know so it was mean
financing is because when when my father
died the cartels approached to us and
they told us we are going to recover all
the money that we spent killing your
father for this last ten years so we're
going to take everything if you want to
dream to stay alive
say thank you take everything you I have
I don't I just want to live I don't want
anything after after your father's death
were you seriously threatened did you
feel like you were threatened your life
my my health worth four million dollars
I had to explain that nobody else's he's
paying that much money now so nobody
don't get very happy about that
because so that was the price of your
head yeah that was the price four
million dollars just for being the son
of Pablo Escobar was that because people
were afraid his enemies were afraid that
you would revenge him yeah they were
very afraid of that Juan Pablo today you
live in Argentina yes you escaped from
from
Columbia after your father's dead you
live in Argentina you're an architect I
know yes also an industrial designer and
you have a wife and kid four year old
cute
yes and your mother she's also there why
don't you return to Colombia now it's
been so many years well I have to wait
them to 14 years since my father's dead
to say goodbye to him because it's
because of the threats you know
everybody was telling me if you ever
came back we will kill you so I had to
say in Argentina I don't have the option
of returning to Colombia that's not an
option for me thank you so much for
sharing your story with us tonight
thanks to you
[Applause]